README.md, before:

# OSCON 2015: Microservices with [Spring Cloud](http://cloud.spring.io) and [Netflix OSS](http://netflix.github.io)

Slides: http://spencer.gibb.us/preso/spring-cloud-oscon-2015/

## Spring Boot

`start_spring_io.sh fortunes actuator,web`

application.properties:
```
server.port=8080
```

1. add fortunes from https://goo.gl/0lVrBw
2. static random

## Config Server

`start_spring_io.sh configserver actuator,web,cloud-config-server`

application.properties
```
server.port=8888
```

https://github.com/spencergibb/oscon-config-repo

add exclusion to s-c-config-server
```
<exclusions>
  <exclusion>
    <groupId>org.springframework.security</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-security-rsa</artifactId>
  </exclusion>
</exclusions>
```


in bootstrap.properties
```
encrypt.key=foobar
spring.application.name=configserver
```

```
http :8888/foo/default
http --form :8888/encrypt password=
http --form :8888/decrypt $ENCRYPTED=
```

in config-repo:application.yml set `encrypted.value: '{cipher}$ENCRYPTED'`

add config client to fortunes
in bootstrap.properties
```
  spring.application.name=fortunes
```

show profiles and labels

## Eureka

`start_spring_io.sh eureka actuator,web,cloud-eureka-server`

application.properties:
```
server.port=8761
eureka.client.register-with-eureka=false
eureka.client.fetch-registry=false
```

add `spring-cloud-starter-eureka` and `@EnableDiscoveryClient` to fortunes and configserver
run more than 1

## Ribbon

`start_spring_io.sh fortunesui actuator,web,cloud-ribbon,cloud-config-client,cloud-eureka`

application.properties
```
server.port=9000
```

in bootstrap.properties
```
  spring.application.name=fortunesui
```

add `@EnableDiscoveryClient`
add `/choose` that show `LoadBalancerClient` in action

add `RestOperations` to `/`

## Feign

add `spring-cloud-starter-feign` to fortunesui
add `@EnableFeignClients`
add `@FeignClient` public interface...

## Hystrix

add `spring-cloud-starter-hystrix` to fortunesui
add `@SpringCloudApplication`
create `FortuneService` with `@HystrixCommand` with fallback

## Hystrix Dashboard

`start_spring_io.sh hystrixdashboard actuator,web,cloud-hystrix-dashboard,cloud-eureka,cloud-config-client``

application.properties
```
server.port=7979
```

in bootstrap.properties
```
spring.application.name=hystrixdashboard
```

stop fortune service and refresh to open circuit

```
http --form POST :9000/env hystrix.command.fortune.circuitBreaker.forceOpen=true
http --form POST :9000/refresh
```

## Zuul

`start_spring_io.sh zuul actuator,web,cloud-config-client,cloud-eureka,cloud-zuul`

application.properties
```
server.port=9080
```

in bootstrap.properties
```
spring.application.name=zuul
```

add `@EnableDiscoveryClient` `@EnableZuulProxy` to zuul app

application.properties
```
management.port=9081
zuul.routes.fortunesui=/**
```

## Actuator

Add fortunesui.prefix property class and add to ui

`http --form POST :9000/env fortunesui.prefix="Awesomeness: "`

Change something in `oscon-config-repo/fortunesui.yml`

```
http POST :9000/refresh
http --form POST :9000/env fortunesui.prefix='really awesome: '
```

## Spring Cloud Bus

add `spring-cloud-starter-bus-amqp` to fortunes and fortunesui

```
http --form POST :9000/bus/env info.url=http://spencer.gibb.us
```

Change something in `oscon-config-repo/application.yml`

```
http POST :9000/bus/refresh
```

## Sidecar

`start_spring_io.sh sidecar actuator,web,cloud-config-client,cloud-eureka`

add `spring-cloud-netflix-sidecar` dependency

get https://goo.gl/XUTHgG and place in `src/main/python`

application.properties
```
server.port=5678
sidecar.port=5680
sidecar.health-uri=http://localhost:${sidecar.port}/health
```

Run with `--spring.application.name=pyfortunes`

http://localhost:8761/eureka/apps to show correct port and homepage

add `/py` to fortunesui

## Security

`start_spring_io.sh authserver actuator,web,security,cloud-config-client,cloud-eureka`

application.properties
```
server.port=9999
security.user.password=password
server.contextPath=/uaa
```

in bootstrap.properties
```
spring.application.name=authserver
```

add `spring-security-oauth2` to pom.xml

from https://github.com/dsyer/spring-security-angular/tree/master/oauth2-vanilla

Update `AuthserverApp` with code from https://goo.gl/qoFs5L

visit
http://localhost:9999/uaa/oauth/authorize?response_type=code&client_id=acme&redirect_uri=http://example.com

get code from browser

```
http --form --auth acme:acmesecret POST :9999/uaa/oauth/token grant_type=authorization_code client_id=acme redirect_uri=http://example.com code=7bx7ci

export TOKEN= access_token from response
```

in fortunes add `spring-security-oauth2` & `spring-cloud-starter-security` to `pom.xml`

add `@EnableOAuth2Resource` to `FortunesApp`

application.properties
```
spring.oauth2.resource.userInfoUri: http://localhost:9999/uaa/user
```

```
http :8080 should be 401
http :8080 Authorization:"Bearer $TOKEN"
http :9999/uaa/user Authorization:"Bearer $TOKEN"
```

in zuul add `spring-boot-starter-security`, `spring-security-oauth2` & `spring-cloud-starter-security` to `pom.xml`

add https://goo.gl/29Qs56 to zuul `application.yml`

in fortunesui add `spring-cloud-starter-security`,`spring-security-oauth2`

add `@EnableOAuth2Resource` to `FortunesuiApp`

```
@Autowired
@LoadBalanced
private OAuth2RestOperations rest;
```

add https://goo.gl/29Qs56 to fortunesui `application.yml`

## Turbine

TODO

## Turbine AMQP

TODO

Commit message:

Add comments how to add unlimited strength file
I got an exception while trying to decrypt/encrypt to fix it I add to install the unlimited strength file.
See for more details the error in question
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6481627/java-security-illegal-key-size-or-default-parameters

README.md, after:

# OSCON 2015: Microservices with [Spring Cloud](http://cloud.spring.io) and [Netflix OSS](http://netflix.github.io)

Slides: http://spencer.gibb.us/preso/spring-cloud-oscon-2015/

## Spring Boot

`start_spring_io.sh fortunes actuator,web`

application.properties:
```
server.port=8080
```

1. add fortunes from https://goo.gl/0lVrBw
2. static random

## Config Server

`start_spring_io.sh configserver actuator,web,cloud-config-server`

application.properties
```
server.port=8888
```

https://github.com/spencergibb/oscon-config-repo

add exclusion to s-c-config-server
```
<exclusions>
  <exclusion>
    <groupId>org.springframework.security</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-security-rsa</artifactId>
  </exclusion>
</exclusions>
```


in bootstrap.properties
```
encrypt.key=foobar
spring.application.name=configserver
```

```
http :8888/foo/default
http --form :8888/encrypt password=
http --form :8888/decrypt $ENCRYPTED=
```
# JDK requirement; if we you have exception during encryption/decryption
# Make sure you have the unlimited strength file installed now in ${java.home}/jre/lib/security/.
# http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jce8-download-2133166.html
# http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jce-7-download-432124.html
# http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jce-6-download-429243.html


in config-repo:application.yml set `encrypted.value: '{cipher}$ENCRYPTED'`

add config client to fortunes
in bootstrap.properties
```
  spring.application.name=fortunes
```

show profiles and labels

## Eureka

`start_spring_io.sh eureka actuator,web,cloud-eureka-server`

application.properties:
```
server.port=8761
eureka.client.register-with-eureka=false
eureka.client.fetch-registry=false
```

add `spring-cloud-starter-eureka` and `@EnableDiscoveryClient` to fortunes and configserver
run more than 1

## Ribbon

`start_spring_io.sh fortunesui actuator,web,cloud-ribbon,cloud-config-client,cloud-eureka`

application.properties
```
server.port=9000
```

in bootstrap.properties
```
  spring.application.name=fortunesui
```

add `@EnableDiscoveryClient`
add `/choose` that show `LoadBalancerClient` in action

add `RestOperations` to `/`

## Feign

add `spring-cloud-starter-feign` to fortunesui
add `@EnableFeignClients`
add `@FeignClient` public interface...

## Hystrix

add `spring-cloud-starter-hystrix` to fortunesui
add `@SpringCloudApplication`
create `FortuneService` with `@HystrixCommand` with fallback

## Hystrix Dashboard

`start_spring_io.sh hystrixdashboard actuator,web,cloud-hystrix-dashboard,cloud-eureka,cloud-config-client``

application.properties
```
server.port=7979
```

in bootstrap.properties
```
spring.application.name=hystrixdashboard
```

stop fortune service and refresh to open circuit

```
http --form POST :9000/env hystrix.command.fortune.circuitBreaker.forceOpen=true
http --form POST :9000/refresh
```

## Zuul

`start_spring_io.sh zuul actuator,web,cloud-config-client,cloud-eureka,cloud-zuul`

application.properties
```
server.port=9080
```

in bootstrap.properties
```
spring.application.name=zuul
```

add `@EnableDiscoveryClient` `@EnableZuulProxy` to zuul app

application.properties
```
management.port=9081
zuul.routes.fortunesui=/**
```

## Actuator

Add fortunesui.prefix property class and add to ui

`http --form POST :9000/env fortunesui.prefix="Awesomeness: "`

Change something in `oscon-config-repo/fortunesui.yml`

```
http POST :9000/refresh
http --form POST :9000/env fortunesui.prefix='really awesome: '
```

## Spring Cloud Bus

add `spring-cloud-starter-bus-amqp` to fortunes and fortunesui

```
http --form POST :9000/bus/env info.url=http://spencer.gibb.us
```

Change something in `oscon-config-repo/application.yml`

```
http POST :9000/bus/refresh
```

## Sidecar

`start_spring_io.sh sidecar actuator,web,cloud-config-client,cloud-eureka`

add `spring-cloud-netflix-sidecar` dependency

get https://goo.gl/XUTHgG and place in `src/main/python`

application.properties
```
server.port=5678
sidecar.port=5680
sidecar.health-uri=http://localhost:${sidecar.port}/health
```

Run with `--spring.application.name=pyfortunes`

http://localhost:8761/eureka/apps to show correct port and homepage

add `/py` to fortunesui

## Security

`start_spring_io.sh authserver actuator,web,security,cloud-config-client,cloud-eureka`

application.properties
```
server.port=9999
security.user.password=password
server.contextPath=/uaa
```

in bootstrap.properties
```
spring.application.name=authserver
```

add `spring-security-oauth2` to pom.xml

from https://github.com/dsyer/spring-security-angular/tree/master/oauth2-vanilla

Update `AuthserverApp` with code from https://goo.gl/qoFs5L

visit
http://localhost:9999/uaa/oauth/authorize?response_type=code&client_id=acme&redirect_uri=http://example.com

get code from browser

```
http --form --auth acme:acmesecret POST :9999/uaa/oauth/token grant_type=authorization_code client_id=acme redirect_uri=http://example.com code=7bx7ci

export TOKEN= access_token from response
```

in fortunes add `spring-security-oauth2` & `spring-cloud-starter-security` to `pom.xml`

add `@EnableOAuth2Resource` to `FortunesApp`

application.properties
```
spring.oauth2.resource.userInfoUri: http://localhost:9999/uaa/user
```

```
http :8080 should be 401
http :8080 Authorization:"Bearer $TOKEN"
http :9999/uaa/user Authorization:"Bearer $TOKEN"
```

in zuul add `spring-boot-starter-security`, `spring-security-oauth2` & `spring-cloud-starter-security` to `pom.xml`

add https://goo.gl/29Qs56 to zuul `application.yml`

in fortunesui add `spring-cloud-starter-security`,`spring-security-oauth2`

add `@EnableOAuth2Resource` to `FortunesuiApp`

```
@Autowired
@LoadBalanced
private OAuth2RestOperations rest;
```

add https://goo.gl/29Qs56 to fortunesui `application.yml`

## Turbine

TODO

## Turbine AMQP

TODO
